This paper presents a general planner to produce whole-body motions in
multi-contact scenarios. The planner is divided into several stages:
First, a trajectory is chosen for the root body of the robot using a 
sampling-based planner, with a reachability heuristic used to guide the
search towards configurations which are likely to admit feasible
quasistatic contacts. Second, each root configuration is extended into
a whole-body configuration by searching for the configuration of each
limb independently, guided by additional heuristics. Finally, the
configurations are interpolated by solving an optimal control problem.
Results are presented on several simulated multiped robots and a
physical HRP2 humanoids.


This paper is clear and thorough in its description of the methods and
results, and the level of detail is good. My primary concern, however,
is that the elements described in this paper have been described in
previous published work, which makes the particular contributions of
this work unclear. To be specific, the reachability-guided planner
appears identical to the planner in [20] (as stated by the authors in
the end of Sect. I.B.), and the optimal control formulation is from [1]
(again as stated in I.B.). The authors highlight a particular
contribution of this work to be the efficient robust balance criterion,
but I had trouble understanding this particular contribution. Does this
refer to the approximation of equilibrium feasibility by contact
reachability? In that case, how does this differ from just applying the
planner in [20] directly? Or does this refer to the robustness
parameter b_0 in Appendix B Eq. (15)?
In addition, sections IV and V are very similar to the description of
the planner in [20]. That's not surprising, of course, but there is no
indication in those sections that the work being presented is a
rephrasing of an earlier publication.


All of this is not to say that I don't believe this work has
publication value. The authors have clearly presented their approach
and thoroughly documented their algorithms, heuristics, and results
(which are impressive and certainly worth sharing). I do, however,
believe that the fact that the technical approaches are rephrasings of
prior work should be made more clear (or that sections which can be
replaced by citations of [20] and [1] be removed).


If the authors choose to follow this advice, then I have a few other
suggestions and requests for clarification:


* I think I understand what the authors mean by solving at
"interactive" rates, but this is worth defining. In my mind, it means
something like "before the human operator gets bored", or roughly > 0.5
Hz. But since the authors make the claim that this is the "first
interactive implementation of a contact planner", then that statement
should be made quantitative and verifiable

* In Section I.A. the authors refer to Bretl's work on multi-contact
planning as the inspiration for the P1,P2,P3 decomposition of the
problem. But it is not, as the authors state, always necessary to
decompose motion planning into choosing a series of quasi-static
configurations. There are a variety of feasible motions with no static
equilibrium configurations, so it is worth mentioning that this
decomposition only solves a subset of motion planning problem.

* Also in Sect. I.A, the authors state that "optimization-based
approaches only converge locally". This is not necessarily true, as
convex or mixed-integer convex optimizations can (sometimes) be solved
to a verifiable global optimum. I would suggest removing this sentence
entirely.

* I am not sure why the C_reach hypothesis is described as the "strong"
hypothesis in, e.g., Sect. IV. Is there a corresponding weak
hypothesis?

* In Sect. IV.B, the authors state that the ideal shape B* "has no
explicit definition". For a particular configuration q_0, B* is simply
the surface of the robot, right? So I assume that this claim refers to
there being no explicit definition of B* which is the volume around
B*(q_0) for every q_0? I think I agree with the authors, but I found
this claim hard to follow and would appreciate some clarification

* In Sect. V.A., the authors mention that the ability to plan a contact
break and creation with the same limb allows the creation of dynamic
motions. This is quite an important ability for an otherwise
quasi-static planner, but this ability isn't described again until the
appendix. It would be worth explaining why this is true in the paper
itself. 

* In Sect. V.B, the authors mention inserting an additional state
between contact configurations if two or more contacts cannot be
maintained. Shouldn't this step appear somewhere in Alg. 1?

* In Appendix A.A, it is mentioned that step 2 in the workspace
computation is conservative, with reference to figure 17-right. But
Fig. 17-right is the simplification of the convex hull, corresponding
to step 3, and it's actually hard to tell from the figure that it is
conservative. Not knowing anything about Blender's decimate tool, I
assume it is operating by removing vertices, which would indeed be
conservative, but some clarification would be useful here.

* Finally, I would suggest providing explicit git SHAs or tags for all
of the github links. I've personally made the mistake of linking to a
github project in a paper, only to have that project change and
eventually delete the specific code I was citing. 