This is the second-round review of a submission I reviewed previously,
hence I focus on the improvements made to the revised manuscript, and
on the few remaining issues that should be clarified before the paper
gets accepted. 
I. All the issues I raised in the first review have been addressed in
the revised version. I'm satisfied with most of the answers and the
changes made to the paper. In particular the novelty of the paper with
respect to the conference works is clarified. I appreciate also the new
structure of the manuscript that integrates material previously
relegated to the Appendices into the main body. Now, this work seems to
be self contained enough for a journal. 
II. However, reading the paper again I found a couple of minor issues
that in my opinion should be solved in the final version, to make this
contribution better and more beneficial to the T-RO readers. Here they
go:
1. I understand the point of view of the authors who focus on
multi-contact planning and would like to refer only briefly to previous
work in motion planning for multi-legged, statically-stable robots. In
principle that is OK, but I suggest to extend the paragraph added at
the end of Section I.A by few sentences that clarify what are the
advantages of your motion planning system with respect to these older
approaches. You are focusing on humanoids, for which these gains are
pretty obvious, but what about multi-legged robots? As an inspiration I
recommend this youtube video showing a simulated hexapod that does
something similar to your HyQ simulated example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xio1TbjAK80
2. While the answer about the environment model is satisfying, I think
that you should no only refer to the FCL library in a footnote, but to
cite the paper that explains how it works:
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6225337/?reload=true
3. In Tab. V you refer to the computation time in units - seconds,
minutes and hours. If so, you should be more specific as to the
source(s) of the numbers you give in that table. I understand the fact
that it is practically impossible to have a fair comparison in that
point, and the whole community is working toward changing this
situation (as you explain). But you should write explicitly that you
took the numbers from the respective papers, or from your
re-implementation of the algorithms you consider (I think it is not the
case). Well, the papers [8], [17], [18] are quite old, and comparing
the computation times achieved on the computers available 10 years ago
and nowadays isn't convincing. 
4. I found few typos, but I believe that these would be removed in the
final editing process. 
The issues raised above are not essentia to the quality of the
contribution, but you can consider addressing these as an attempt to
improve the paper. 
